documentation: Create CONTRIBUTING.md (#5597)
xdslproject/xdsl: CONTRIBUTING.md

  it results in slight duplication. Prefer lambdas/inline logic over tiny single-use
  functions (<5 LoC). Minimize variable scope.
- Self-Describing Code: Minimize comments. Use descriptive variable names and constant
  intermediary variables to explain where possible.
- Guard-First Logic: Handle edge cases, invalid inputs and errors at the start of
  functions. Return early to keep the "happy path" at the lowest indentation level.
- Flat Structure: Keep if/else blocks small. Avoid nesting beyond two levels if possible.
- Centralize Control Flow: Branching logic belongs in parents. Leaf functions should be
  pure logic.
- Fail Fast: Detect unexpected conditions immediately. Raise Exceptions rather than
  corrupt state.
- [Ask for forgiveness not permission](https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-eafp):
  Assume valid keys or attributes exist and catch exceptions if the assumption proves
  false. Use try-except blocks:

  ```python
  # Good
  try:
      return mapping[key]
  except KeyError:
      return default_value

  # Bad
  if key in mapping:
      return mapping[key]
  return default_value
  ```

> 

Reviewer: Let's move this to the end?

These run automatically every day on the main branch, reporting their results to <https://xdsl.dev/xdsl-bench/>.
However, they can also be ran manually by cloning the repository and pointing the
submodule at your feature branch to benchmark.

## Linting and Formatting

Configuration for linting and formatting is found in `pyproject.toml`.

[Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) is used for linting and formatting.
Configured in `[tool.ruff]`.

[Pyright](https://github.com/microsoft/pyright) is used for static type checking.
Configured in `[tool.pyright]`.

```bash
# Format code
uv run ruff format

# Type check code
uv run pyright
# or via makefile
make pyright
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> ### Experimental Pyright Features
>
> xDSL currently relies on an experimental feature of Pyright called TypeForm.
> TypeForm is [in discussion](https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-747-typeexpr-type-hint-for-a-type-expression/55984)
> and will likely land in some future version of Python.
>
> For xDSL to type check correctly using Pyright, please add this to your `pyproject.toml`:
>
> ```toml
> [tool.pyright]
> enableExperimentalFeatures = true
> ```

> 

Author: Made sure to duplicate this line in https://github.com/xdslproject/xdsl/pull/5604

> # Quality Guidelines

Author: > Seems like this is more of a code style? 

Sounds good!

> we use strict pyright linting somewhere

Should be covered by `make precommit`.
Would it make sense to make this explicit?

> # Quality Guidelines

Author: Found a way to fit it in.

Resolved: https://github.com/xdslproject/xdsl/pull/5597/commits/05f811a684054243a2a07f8c9384a9ed23964cd3

> Follow these rules for all code changes in this repository:

Reviewer: How about this?
```suggestion
We aim to follow these rules for all changes in this repository:
```

- Match existing code style and architectural patterns.
- Zero Technical Debt: Fix issues immediately. Never rely on future refactoring.
- Keep it simple: No code > Obvious code > Clever code. Do not abstract prematurely.
- Locality over DRY: Prioritize code locality. Keep related logic close together even if
  it results in slight duplication. Prefer lambdas/inline logic over tiny single-use
  functions (<5 LoC). Minimize variable scope.
- Self-Describing Code: Minimize comments. Use descriptive variable names and constant
  intermediary variables to explain where possible.
- Guard-First Logic: Handle edge cases, invalid inputs and errors at the start of
  functions. Return early to keep the "happy path" at the lowest indentation level.
- Flat Structure: Keep if/else blocks small. Avoid nesting beyond two levels if possible.
- Centralize Control Flow: Branching logic belongs in parents. leaf functions should be
  pure logic.
- Fail Fast: Detect unexpected conditions immediately. Raise Exceptions rather than
  corrupt state.

> - Ask for forgiveness than permission: assume the existence of valid keys or attributes

Reviewer: let's link to the page here? and maybe give example from that page?
